PS-7453 Document Binary Log UDFS (8.0) (#4140)
percona/percona-server: doc/source/flexibility/binlogging_replication_improvements.rst

      |MySQL| Documentation: FLUSH Syntax
         https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/flush.html

.. _percona-server.binary-log.UDF:

Binary Log User Defined Functions
================================================================================

To implement Point in Time recovery, we have added the ``binlog_utils_udf``. The following user-defined functions are included:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 20 20 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Returns
     - Description
   * - get_binlog_by_gtid()
     - Binlog file name as STRING
     - Returns the binlog file name that contains the specified GTID
   * - get_last_gtid_from_binlog()
     - GTID as STRING
     - Returns the last GTID found in the specified binlog
   * - get_gtid_set_by_binlog()
     - GTID set as STRING
     - Returns all GTIDs found in the specified binlog

>    * - get_binlog_by gtid_set()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - get_binlog_by_gtid_set()
```

Author: Fixed.

>      - Binlog file name as STRING and GTIDs as STRING

Reviewer: `get_binlog_by_gtid_set()` returns just one value GTID set as STRING
```suggestion
     - Binlog file name as STRING as STRING
```

Author: Fixed.

>      - Returns the binlog file name which contains at least one GTID and all GTIDs which are stored inside the returned binlog file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Returns file name of the binlog which contains at least one GTID  from the specified set
```

Author: Fixed.

   * - get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog()

>      - Timestamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Timestamp as INTEGER
```

Author: Fixed.

>      - Returns the first recorded timestamp in the specified binlog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Returns the timestamp of the first event in the specified binlog
```

Author: Fixed.

   * - get_last_record_timestamp_by_binlog()

>      - Timestamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Timestamp as INTEGER  
```

Author: Fixed.

>      - Returns the last recorded timestamp in the specified binlog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Returns the timestamp of the last event in the specified binlog
```

Author: Fixed.

> 

Reviewer: Here, after the summary table please note the following:
1. All functions returning timestamps return their values as microsecond precision Unix Time. In other words,  they represent the number of microseconds since 1-JAN-1970.
2. All functions accepting binlog name as parameter accept only short names (without path component). If the path separator '/' is found in the input, an error is returned. This serves the purpose of restricting locations from where binlogs can be read from. They are always read from the current binlog directory (@@log_bin_basename system variable).
3. All functions returning binlog file names return them in short form (without path component).

Author: Added.

The basic syntax for ``get_gtid_set_by_binlog()`` is the following:

* get_gtid_set_by_binlog(string) [AS] alias

  Usage: SELECT get_gtid_set_by_binlog(string) [AS] alias

  Example:

  .. code-block:: mysql

      CREATE FUNCTION get_gtid_set_by_binlog RETURNS STRING SONAME 'libbinlog_utils_udf.so';
      SELECT get_gtid_set_by_binlog("binlog.00001") AS result;
      +-------------------------+
      | result                  |
      +=========================+
      | 11ea-b9a7:7,11ea-b9a7:8 |
      +-------------------------+

      DROP FUNCTION get_gtid_set_by_binlog;

The basic syntax for ``get_binlog_by_gtid_set()`` is the following:

* get_binlog_by_gtid_set(string) [AS] alias

  Usage: SELECT get_binlog_by_gtid_set(string) [AS] alias

  Example:

  .. code-block:: mysql

      CREATE FUNCTION get_binlog_by_gtid_set RETURNS STRING SONAME 'libbinlog_utils_udf.so';
      SELECT get_binlog_by_gtid_set("11ea-b9a7:7,11ea-b9a7:8") AS result;
      +---------------------------------------------------------------+
      | result                                                        |
      +===============================================================+

>       | bin.000003/11ea-b9a7:9,11ea-b9a7:10,11ea-b9a7:11,11ea-b9a7:12 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      | bin.000003 |
```

Author: Updated.

      +---------------------------------------------------------------+

      DROP FUNCTION get_binlog_by_gtid_set;

The basic syntax for ``get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog()`` is the following:

* get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog(TIMESTAMP) [AS] alias

  Usage: SELECT get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog(TIMESTAMP) [AS] alias

  Example:

  .. code-block:: mysql

      CREATE FUNCTION SELECT get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog RETURNS TIMESTAMP SONAME 'libbinlog_utils_udf.so';

>       SELECT SELECT get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog("bin.00003") AS result;

Reviewer: Not exactly correct
```
      SELECT get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog("bin.00003") AS result;
```
will return something like `1234567000000`
If user wants to show readable timestamp (losing microseconds), they can write
```
      SELECT FROM_UNIXTIME(get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog("bin.00003") DIV 1000000) AS result;
```
And the result will be something like `2020-12-03 09:10:40`

BTW, `SELECT SELECT` should be just `SELECT`

Author: Updated - removed second SELECT

      +---------------------+
      | result              |
      +=====================+
      | 2020-12-03 09:10:40 |
      +---------------------+

      DROP FUNCTION get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog;

The basic syntax for ``get_last_record_timestamp_by_binlog()`` is the following:

* get_last_record_timestamp_by_binlog(TIMESTAMP) [AS] alias

  Usage: SELECT get_last_record_timestamp_by_binlog(TIMESTAMP) [AS] alias

  Example:

  .. code-block:: mysql

      CREATE FUNCTION SELECT get_last_record_timestamp_by_binlog RETURNS TIMESTAMP SONAME 'libbinlog_utils_udf.so';

>       SELECT SELECT get_last_record_timestamp_by_binlog("bin.00003") AS result;

Reviewer: Likewise, similar to `get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog()`

Author: Updated - removed second SELECT

      |MySQL| Documentation: FLUSH Syntax
         https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/flush.html

.. _percona-server.binary-log.UDF:

Binary Log User Defined Functions
================================================================================

To implement Point in Time recovery, we have added the ``binlog_utils_udf``. The following user-defined functions are included:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 20 20 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Returns
     - Description
   * - get_binlog_by_gtid()
     - Binlog file name as STRING
     - Returns the binlog file name that contains the specified GTID
   * - get_last_gtid_from_binlog()
     - GTID as STRING
     - Returns the last GTID found in the specified binlog
   * - get_gtid_set_by_binlog()
     - GTID set as STRING
     - Returns all GTIDs found in the specified binlog
   * - get_binlog_by_gtid_set()

>      - Binlog file name as STRING as STRING

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Binlog file name as STRING
```

Author: Fixed.

     - Timestamp as INTEGER
     - Returns the timestamp of the first event in the specified binlog
   * - get_last_record_timestamp_by_binlog()
     - Timestamp as INTEGER
     - Returns the timestamp of the last event in the specified binlog

.. note::

    All functions returning timestamps return their values as microsecond precision UNIX time. In other words, they represent the number of microseconds since 1-JAN-1970.

    All functions accepting a binlog name as the parameter accepts only short names, without a path component. If the path separator ('/') is found in the input, an error is returned. This serves the purpose of restricting the locations from where binlogs can be read. They are always read from the current binlog directory (`@@log_bin_basename system variable <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/replication-options-binary-log.html#sysvar_log_bin_basename>`_).

    All functions returning binlog file names return the name in short form, without a path component.

The basic syntax for ``get_binlog_by_gtid()`` is the following:

* get_binlog_by_gtid(string) [AS] alias

  Usage: SELECT get_binlog_by_gtid(string) [AS] alias

  Example:

  .. code-block:: mysql

>       CREATE FUNCTION get_binlog_by_gtid RETURNS STRING SONAME 'libbinlog_utils_udf.so';

Reviewer 2: library name is  ```SONAME 'binlog_utils_udf.so';```

Author: Updated all the library names to binlog_utils_udf.so

      +=========================+
      | 11ea-b9a7:7,11ea-b9a7:8 |
      +-------------------------+

      DROP FUNCTION get_gtid_set_by_binlog;

The basic syntax for ``get_binlog_by_gtid_set()`` is the following:

* get_binlog_by_gtid_set(string) [AS] alias

  Usage: SELECT get_binlog_by_gtid_set(string) [AS] alias

  Example:

  .. code-block:: mysql

      CREATE FUNCTION get_binlog_by_gtid_set RETURNS STRING SONAME 'libbinlog_utils_udf.so';
      SELECT get_binlog_by_gtid_set("11ea-b9a7:7,11ea-b9a7:8") AS result;
      +---------------------------------------------------------------+
      | result                                                        |
      +===============================================================+
      | bin.000003                                                    |
      +---------------------------------------------------------------+

      DROP FUNCTION get_binlog_by_gtid_set;

The basic syntax for ``get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog()`` is the following:

* get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog(TIMESTAMP) [AS] alias

  Usage: SELECT get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog(TIMESTAMP) [AS] alias

  Example:

  .. code-block:: mysql

>       CREATE FUNCTION SELECT get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog RETURNS TIMESTAMP SONAME 'libbinlog_utils_udf.so';

Reviewer 2: CREATE FUNCTION get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog RETURNS STRING SONAME 'binlog_utils_udf.so';

Author: Fixed.

      SELECT FROM_UNIXTIME(get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog("bin.00003") DIV 1000000) AS result;
      +---------------------+
      | result              |
      +=====================+
      | 2020-12-03 09:10:40 |
      +---------------------+

      DROP FUNCTION get_first_record_timestamp_by_binlog;

The basic syntax for ``get_last_record_timestamp_by_binlog()`` is the following:

* get_last_record_timestamp_by_binlog(TIMESTAMP) [AS] alias

  Usage: SELECT get_last_record_timestamp_by_binlog(TIMESTAMP) [AS] alias

  Example:

  .. code-block:: mysql

>       CREATE FUNCTION SELECT get_last_record_timestamp_by_binlog RETURNS TIMESTAMP SONAME 'libbinlog_utils_udf.so';

Reviewer 2: CREATE FUNCTION get_last_record_timestamp_by_binlog RETURNS STRING SONAME 'binlog_utils_udf.so';

Author: Fixed.
